Okay,
guys,
And welcome back to another student.
Questions answered.
Now this one is again from Neil on what Neil has is a colossal great data set with the
unique 13 digit reference mostly living in column.
May occasionally bleeds over two column B or column C,
but I think he said D in the here in the question.
But I've just coded this for a B and C,
but when you see the code,
you'll know you can see how easy this to modify.
So this is completely mocked.
Update of what we have is 4016 lines on.
We have some unique M pan numbers.
This is for the power industry,
so they're all 13 digit numbers.
Again,
this is just completely randomly created.
Data on what we should have in this colossal file is 365 entries for each unique impound,
and you can see that we have half Everly meter readings again,
totally made up,
just using a ram between all the Web column,
a wife.
So it's a fairly big data set,
and the aim of the exercise is to go through this and create something like this,
and this is a book,
a new workbook that has all of the particular impound radiance for each unique entry,
all the way down to 365 was probably quickly.
By doing that,
they would get 365 with each one having a tab off its own,
and they're all in there.
So let me close that on.
Let's talk through the logic of this,
so the first thing that we need to do is create a unique list of 13 digit codes out of
columns A,
B and C.
Then,
using that unique list,
what we need to do is create a new workbook and add sheet for each of those unique entries
.
Then what we need to do is go through each of those unique entries in turn,
loop through this entire data set,
hopefully capturing all of the entries from Column A.
But if not bouncing over two column B and repeating,
there's no two column,
see him repeating until we've course all 365 entries and as we capture each one,
what we want to do is write it to the new workbook to the appropriate sheets and then at
the end.
We wanna have add Header,
which is always the same from here.
So let's have a look in that we create that code and this is it just here.
So we have a few variables.
We have excess injury,
which is just going to count the number of rows wires in Georgia,
which is going to count each time we do a copy and paste.
Each time we found a match,
my limit is going to count how many times this M pan appears in columns A,
B and C,
and then we can check why against my limits.
So if we happen to filled all 365 interest by the end of column A or somewhere Down column
A,
we're not gonna have to carry on down column A and then B and then see,
we can just exit that loop.
My tempest is going to hold the unique impound number on my new book.
We're just going to use that to capture the name of the new workbook as it's created.
So my keep holds a little dodgy.
Today it's a wireless keyboard,
so this is the third time I've tried to record this lecture I'm hoping it's not going to
get stuck,
so firstly,
make sure we're on the right sheet.
Cheats Cheat one Select.
Obviously it's not called sheet one.
Change the name.
Now here.
We're going to capture the number of rows in this complete data set.
So we're just gonna map it to where the variable why we're going to say range A one dot
current region which you'll remember picks the whole region dot round rose,
doc counts or when we have fate over that X is now worth 4000 and 16 They were going to do
something that I frequently do.
When I'm doing work like this,
I add a new sheet temporarily.
So I'm going to use sheets.
Add after sheets.
11 is the index number.
So this is going to appear at position two and then I'm gonna rename that sheet to scratch
.
And I always called my sheets scratch,
and then at the end,
we're going to delete their snow.
The next thing we need to do is get all of column A from a one to a X,
which will remember,
is how many rows of data we have.
So copy everything from sheet.
One range a one to a for a 16 And copy that to sheet scratch at position A one.
So when they hit F eight,
you can see that we've got a boatload of data all the way down here on.
Then what we're gonna do is do the same for column B and then column C.
So this time I'm gonna get sheets.
One range.
Be want to be X,
which is for a 16 And copy this two sheets.
Scratch the sheet range A 1,048,575 which is almost the very bottom go end.
Excel up,
which is going to get us to the bottom of this newly pasted date set on Offset one.
And that's going to get us our first blank row.
So that's done.
A.
So that's done A less than be And they were going to do the same.
We see notice that were coming from the bottom up and then offsetting one.
Know what we're going to do issues the remove duplicates and you can find this in the data
menu and this is just butchered from a quick recorded macro.
So I'm just going to do the whole of column a remove duplicates and hit F eight.
No,
I have all of the unique interests.
Now I'm gonna make sure start of the range by selecting a one.
And here's our first loop loop to test for length of characters of 13.
So do it's a do loop.
So we're gonna do while the active cell doesn't equal blank.
What we're going to say is,
if the length of the active cell doesn't equal 13 then delete the entire row if it does
equal 13 moved down on loop.
So we're just going to go through that Well,
step through.
So here are unique entries.
No,
it's going to start deleting,
so we've got a boatload to do.
So I'm just gonna debug and run to cursor on that here,
what we're going to do and this is again budget from recording macro down here from a one
to a 11 we're gonna paste accounted formula.
So I'm gonna say range be want to be range A for 1,000,400 whatever this 1000 end excel up
row on,
that's going to give me the row number of the last data entry.
So effectively,
this says B one to B 11 paced in account if formula there for just click on this formula.
He just see it's the sheets,
columns a through C on looking here So you can see that we have 365 different entries for
for this particular M pan across the whole of a B and C.
Okay,
so never gonna other new workbook boom.
And then we're gonna capture the name of that new workbook on we can see hovering over its
book.
For then,
we're gonna activate this workbook again.
Again,
We're just gonna pick column A And here we come to our first loop.
So do,
while the act itself doesn't equal blank.
So my temp is going to be the active cell values.
And there we have the impound number,
and then we're gonna add a sheet to the new work books or workbooks.
My new workbook,
Duck cheats,
ad after workbooks.
My new workbook dot sheets open brackets,
workbooks.
My new workbook dot sheets.
Duck cams.
No,
it's important that you add this exactly as it appears in here.
Otherwise,
it will only count the number of sheets in the active workbook,
Not the new workbook you've just added.
So we're just gonna loop through.
And this is now going through all of these and add in a tub to that new workbook for each
of these particular impound numbers.
And then I'm just gonna come down to the bottom now.
20 bug and run that out.
Room two curses.
Let's just have a quick look at that of the sheet.
If something drank that into shut.
Sir Vega know we have a unique sheet for each of those 11 entries or 10 entries whenever it
waas.
So alternate 11.
If that.
Let's bring the other sheet back up so we can watch what's happening.
So there.
Okay,
so now we're gonna go back to the start of a one.
So we're now back at the top,
and there we have the big loop that's going to write the data.
So we're going to select a one again,
which will need to later on,
we're going to get the name off the first M pants on my temp equals that my limit is going
to read from here.
So my limit is 365.
No,
I know what I'm looking for.
And now I know how many entries I'm expected to find.
Sheets,
sheet one select,
go back to the data set.
And here is the A loop.
This is what we're going to do.
We're going to go through all of the A's first.
So a one select.
And it's a do loop while the active cells as an equal blank.
So if the actor cell doesn't equal my temp 3099 what we're gonna do is move down one on
loop,
and now we'll find that that does equal that.
And then what we're going to do is win a copy of the entire Roto workbooks,
my new workbook sheets,
my temps,
and we know we're going to get the right sheet again.
We're going to go range 81 million and armed.
Go up and offset by one.
So if the sheet is blank,
that's going to paste it.
A two.
I'm just going to scroll through.
I'm gonna move down the cell here and I'm gonna increase.
Why by one.
So why equals y plus one?
So why is now worth one?
Because we have copied and pasted once are limited.
So why doesn't equal 365?
So we're just going to go through?
I am.
We're gonna loop all the way until we get to my limit.
So I'm just going to debug and step into that run together any second.
Now,
this runs much quicker than the application screen update and some,
by the way.
Andi,
There you go.
So my limit no equals 365 and we have copied and pasted 365 times said that what we're
going to do is copy.
The headings were going to say range a one here,
the entire road,
Doc.
Copy to Workbooks.
My new workbook Again.
Sheets.
My temp,
which is the name of this impound range a one and that's going to put the head in straight
across the top.
Go to the next out of loop that is going to skip the B loop,
and that is going to skip the sea loop and it's gonna come down to hear this label next out
of loop,
we're going to reset.
Why?
So why is back to zero?
We're going to go back to the scratch sheet and we're going to delete the entire row.
So now when we loop a one is the next MPA.
I'm just gonna run that all the way through until we get to.
I think there's a be somewhere s so I'm just gonna run that through until we get to hear so
well,
that's going to do is run through the whole of column A and it's going to constantly count
every time we copy and paste until the number of times you copied and pasted matches the
number of entries in that thing.
Now,
I'm just gonna pause the recording for a second since what we get here.
Because without the screen updating on,
this is going to take quite a while to run so bad me just one second.
Okay,
and welcome back.
So now we if we look here,
we can see that my limited 365 for my temp whatever that says.
1614 something or other.
But why is only 364?
Therefore we haven't found all 365 entries in column A.
So now what column Bees is an exact copy of the A loop.
But instead of sand and a one it starts and be one simple Is that so?
Are we going to do is loop through this.
That doesn't appear to be moving down the big room to Carisa.
It is moving them,
but for some reason,
it's not showing on the screen.
Not sure why,
that is,
anyway.
So then we go to the next day of solute,
Chris.
Now my limited 365 and 165.
And then we're just going to run that up until we get down to here again.
I'm just gonna portia second,
because with screen updating turned on,
this is gonna take a while to run through.
So bad me a second.
Okay,
here we go.
And we're back.
So we've run through columns A,
B and C,
if appropriate.
Until we found all 365 matches were temporarily going to turn off the display alerts.
Looks here we go.
Display alerts were going to delete the scratchy because we don't need to any more.
We're gonna turn the alerts back on.
Begin a select sheet one,
and we're gonna get to range a one on the file we have created in a limit.
Just and so far we have created looks like groups.
Looks like this.
And this is the newly created file and you can see if I expand it that we have a tab for
each of those unique numbers now with the application screen of data and turned on this
room's through in about 2030 seconds.
Something like that.
But that's how you do it.
As always,
the coach is available to download.
Let me just close that Save the code is available today and load in this violence all in
here,
and there's always if you have any questions,
just let me know,
OK,
thanks for her much,
and I'll see you in the next lecture.